I am Matthew Henson, an African American explorer
born in 1866 in Maryland, The United States.
I am best known as the co-discoverer of the
North Pole with Robert Edwin Peary in 1909.
My parents were freeborn Black sharecroppers.
At the age of 11, I lost both and found work
as a cabin boy on the ship Katie Hines. During
my time aboard the Katie Hines, I also saw much
of the world, traveling to various African
countries, China, Japan, and even Russia.
I was eventually recruited by the explorer, Robert
C. Peary, to accompany him on an expedition to
Nicaragua. We would go on to forge a twenty-year
partnership, with a mission to reach the North
Pole. After spending years in the arctic
preparing to reach the geographic North Pole,
I became fluent in the Inuit language and
traded often with their people. I was also
taught the art of Inuit dogsled driving and am
known as the only non-Inuit to have mastered
dog training and sledding in this fashion.
In 1908, I and Peary left Greenland accompanied
by a group of Inuit men, women, and children for
our eighth attempt at reaching the North Pole.
Peary was sick and exhausted, and I went ahead of
him to lead the way and made it to the North Pole
before anyone else in the group. Upon returning to
the U.S., Peary was given all the credit for the
mission, and I was largely forgotten about.
I went on to write my autobiography,
A Negro Explorer at the North Pole, and I spent
thirty years working for the U.S. Customs House
in New York, at the request of Teddy Roosevelt.
I received the Congressional medal awarded to
all members of the Peary expedition in 1944.
I died in New York City in 1955 after joining
8 expeditions to the arctic. I think I am the
first man to sit on top of the world. A world
that has many unseen corners and it’s in our hands
to pave the way to reach them. Let’s explore!